---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Define a Smart Question
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-10
labels:
  - Questions
  - Asking for help
---

Knowing an answer to a question can go both ways, beneficial and temporary. Beneficial in the way that humans are able to learn and grow to some extent from the newly acquired answer. And temporary in the sense that it only fulfills their desire for the answer, those people do not gain anything in the long run. These concepts can be related to the idea of smart and dumb questions. A smart and dumb question can easily be seen by the information given as well as how the person is asking for help.

Smart questions are the ones that seek guidance and assistance rather than the direct answer. One crucial element to asking questions is the amount of research one has put in before asking the question. This is important because it shows a level of etiquette, as you are not asking help without putting in any effort in thinking or researching. Another thing to consider is the platform you are asking help from. There is a big difference in the forums you decide to post on. For example, asking for help with mathematics on a website on StackOverflow will not bode positive comments. This example of a smart question found on StackOverflow best defines these qualities. This person is not asking for an answer for a problem, but instead clarification on how the compiler handles the sequence of statements. This is a smart question because of the explanation he gives. This person states his source for the problem given (C Programming: A Modern Approach) and explains his interpretation of the problem while giving segments of code showing the problem. This gives a better visualization of the problem at hand and where it can be found, this person is not trying shove is work onto someone else, he shows his understanding and asks “Is this right?” This is the correct way to ask a smart question, polite and informative.

On the other hand, there are dumb questions. These types of questions are usually from people who want an easy way out. These questions typically don’t provide enough background and are simple, such that it is not worth answering. This question found on StackOverflow best describes the qualities of a dumb question. When someone reads this question, it should be obvious that this person who posted this question does not care about anything but the answer. First off, there is a lack of information given, there is no code to trace, nor any other information involving his problem. All we know as the reader is that some structure, one of its members (an array) can not hold more than 25 records and that this person is trying to read the data to a text file. The readers do not have enough information, could it be the declaration size of the array that is the problem? If this person is trying to read data to a file, well to do that he is probably using a function to do that? Could it be a problem with how he is using the read/write functions: <p style="font-family: Courier New"> fopen(), fclose(), fgets()</p>? It is the fact that the reader does not have full information, and since we do not know, we can not answer the question. It would seem like this person did not do enough research on his problem as there are online resources available (tutorialspoint, geeksforgeeks, C documentation) that could help solve this problem.
