---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Laying the Groundwork
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-12-03
labels:
  - Design Patterns
---

## Foundations

When creating anything, it is always easy to envision the end goal of the product. But to begin a foundation needs to be set. In computer science, the foundation that is used in our products is one of many different design patterns, each serving a different purpose. To give a general definition of design patterns it is “a description or template for how to solve a problem that can be used in many different situations.” I think the best way to explain this topic is to use a video game analogy. Suppose there is a strong boss that the player needs to defeat. You have the option of picking different classes to go up against that boss. What do you the player pick, a knight: use brute force; tank: high health; mage: high mobility and relies on spells; or another class that has its own perks. There is no right answer, if anything it depends on your playstyle. I think that decision applies to design patterns. The class you picked is the design pattern you decided on is your foundation, with its own pros and cons to help you, the developer, solve your problem. 

There are major benefits to using design patterns. One is it provides the framework or groundwork to solve these issues in software development. Deciding to use a specific design pattern shapes the development process of the application. Meaning when working on a team of developers it improves the communication between developers as everyone is following the same pattern. After doing some research on design patterns, in my opinion, I would say these are 5 design patterns that are common and important.

- Singleton: Restricts the instantiation of a class to one "single" instance. In other words, it allows usage of the instance as a global variable
- Factory: Similar to a real factory, it defines an interface or abstract class for creating an object but let the subclasses decide which class to instantiate
- Observer: named the subject, maintains a list of its dependents, called observers, and notifies them automatically of any state changes, usually by calling one of their methods
- Builder: provide a flexible solution to various object creation problems in object-oriented programming
- Adapter: allows the interface of an existing class to be used as another interface

## Usage

Up until now, I had heard about the topic of design patterns. But after gaining a small understanding of the topic of design patterns, I realized that there are many instances where I have used design patterns in my own code. The most common one I believe I have used was the singleton pattern. Back in high school in my computer programming class, I had a small project of creating a text-based game with java. And with the use of Java, everything is class-dependent, I created classes that represent different enemies and characters. With importing/exporting these different classes and using their instances in different classes. That is the definition of the singleton pattern. More recent use of this pattern would be in my upcoming final project for my ICS 314: Software Engineering class. But with the use of database collections and manipulating them in other locations. An example would be the use of a profile page. A common feature many applications allow would be editing or adding a profile, thus manipulating or adding data for that specific collection.

## The Punchline

The punchline for this essay would be to stick to the foundations. With design patterns, there are specific rules and qualities that each one has with their own strengths and weaknesses. Like in a video game, the player should know the limits of their character class. The same thing applies to design patterns, as the developer it is your duty to understand the structure and qualities of the pattern you are using to shape your application. That way you do not regret your decision while you are facing off against that boss. 
