---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Utility of Tools
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-24
labels:
  - ESLint
  - Coding Standards
---

## Overcoming Tendencies

  If being organized helps improve one’s flow of tasks and supports communication. Then neglecting the idea of organization, can simply be related to shooting one’s own foot.

  Within the field of computer science, there are guidelines that programmers and coders should follow. These guidelines essentially boil down to how one would write their own code. The number of spaces for an indentation, or how certain variables are decelerated and used, as well as point pointing out errors. Consider these three different lines of code.
```
let x = 2, y = “ABC”;        if(x === y.length) {return “Foo”;}
```
```
let x = 2;
let y = “ABC”;
if(x === y.length) { return “Foo”; }
```
```
let x = 2;
let y = “ABC”;
if (x === y.length) {
    return “Foo”; 
}
```
From these three examples, all of them accomplish the same goal, but it should be clear which one is the most comprehensive when reading. Computer science should never be about saving lines of code, it is more important that when another person reads the code, they can easily understand it. Take this situation as an example, a company or a group of people run into a bug and they need to resolve it, but everyone has their way of writing code, that being different from one another. This situation requires more time allocated to understanding how one another’s code is structured rather than the problem at hand. Having computer scientists and programmers follow a specific coding standard helps improve performance and work speed, especially in a group setting. It may seem uncomfortable and annoying at first, but with any new tool, it takes some time to adjust and get used to it. This is equivalent to having a clean desk, you know where items and papers are by instinct; do not shoot yourself in the foot.

 With the transition to using an IDE in my software engineering class, there is the required usage of coding standards from ESLint. For me, this is not my first time using a coding standard in class, but for some reason, I find ESLint more troublesome. The reason being the setup for ESLint is not something I got down or used to yet, but from the uses, it has proven to be helpful. For me, I would like to consider myself an organized person, I like having my items and work in order. Personally, I like having a coding standard such as ESLint in place, it can easily point out the typos made as well as having a specific style that improves readability. Getting a red checkmark might seem annoying to some, but I find it to be good that my errors are pointed out. If I were to compare it to ESLint to something, it would be the same as a calculator, it is a tool that helps one reach the answer. If there are certain tools that would help improve speed while still providing knowledge/understanding, then why not use it, that is how I view ESLint and coding standards. 
