---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: A New Wave
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-10-08
labels:
  - HTML/CSS
  - Semantic UI
  - Reflection
---

For me, I can say that styling with HTML or CSS is not my strong point. It is easy to put all the necessary information and pictures onto an HTML document, but it takes another level to style it. I studied plain HTML and CSS the previous summer, in the attempts to create my own website, and I can honestly say that styling HTML was one of the most infuriating things I have put myself through. There were many things that had to be considered: margins, padding, position of images, and alignment of text. I gave up on this project due to the level of difficulty that came with this project. And then I learned about Semantic UI this week, which can be described as revolutionary. It made me feel like an old man who learned about a new piece of technology. 

If I had to make a comparison to using Semantic UI, I would compare it to cooking. It takes patience and precision when cooking food, I would argue the idea applies to styling with Semantic UI. Specifically when describing the class for elements. Suppose you have a div tag with the class ```“ui yellow three item menu.”``` The result is a menu with three items; when clicked on it turns yellow. In some ways you can describe food in the same light; ```“yellow three equal length medium size cake.”``` Granted no one (probably) orders food to that level of detail but the idea can be that the food made already has specific attributes already. You are essentially the customer requesting a specific style and Semantic UI is the chef outputting your request. 

If I had to pinpoint one area of styling within Semantic UI that I am awful at it would be using containers. Containers provide margins, paddings, alignments, fonts, colors. I only realized this importance after a specific assignment in software engineering, where I had to make an exact copy of a website. The website I had chosen was the lolesports website. After two hours in the assignment, when I was working on the main display of the website, I noticed that my text and images are going off the left side of the browser. For the longest time doing the assignment, I had assumed the reason for the display being off was due to the margins. I had resorted to applying margin-left to many of the items and images to fix the display. Until I found that containers neatly organize everything within a box. I would consider the container tag to be the most important, when styling in Semantic UI. If I had known this sooner, it would have saved me time displaying the content.

Overall, I think learning about Semantic UI can be considered revolutionary. If one is using plain HTML and CSS, that would be considered the primitive way for styling. Why would you put yourself through that pain and insufferable hours of styling margins, padding, and alignment to the very last detail. With Semantic UI you can website and style it with less than half the time in comparison to plain HTML and CSS. With this newfound knowledge, it makes me want to restart my old project in creating a website. To summarize, just use Semantic UI there is no reason not to.

