---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: My Honest Feelings About Javascript
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-03
labels:
  - Javascript
---

## My Honest Feelings About Javascript

  If someone were to ask me at this exact moment how I feel about Javascript, I would say it is met with a lot of displeasure as well as some headaches. What exposed me into learning this language was my software engineering class in college. Up to this point, I have only studied programming languages such as Java, C, and C++. My initial thoughts were “maybe Java and Javascript might be similar, it shouldn’t be that hard to pick up,” I was wrong. If I were to describe the programming languages that I know, in comparison to javascript, I would say the main difference is the organization. What I mean by that is the initialization of variables. For example, in C the common data types you have are int, double, char, boolean, and so on. Those common data types and how they are initialized are basic knowledge. Meanwhile, in Javascript, it seems you can shove anything into a var and in an array and it is valid.

  While the usage of variables is not inherently bad, I honestly consider it more of a nit-pick. The real problem that I do have is the lack of understanding of certain aspects with Javascript. Recently one of my homework assignments was to complete the introductory course for ES6, an enhancement to the Javascript language. When doing the introductory course I honestly felt like an idiot. Mainly the usage of the arrow notation, class definitions, promises, and template literals. To keep it short, I don't understand a damn thing about this language. 
  
	Despite these thoughts, I will decide to withhold judgment and opinion. At the moment that I am writing this essay, I am one week into my software engineering class. I feel as a new person learning javascript, my opinion is currently not worth listening to. While I do see the main difference between Javascript and the other programming languages that I have learned, all the things that I complained about in this essay are just the ramblings of a college student struggling in the first week. I do understand that there are a lot more opportunities and upside that come with learning this language, as there are many possibilities with software development and web development. At this moment I do think that Javascript sucks, but who knows, as time moves on, I might come to like Javascript just a little bit more.
